Add July 2025 newsletter (#2395)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/newsletter-july-2025.rst

:og:image: https://www.writethedocs.org/_static/logo-opengraph.png

> .. post:: July 01, 2025

Author: ```suggestion
.. post:: July 03, 2025
```

  :tags: newsletter

#####################################
Write the Docs Newsletter – July 2025
#####################################

Ahoy, documentatarians! As the weather here heats up, I'm seeing more warnings for people to protect themselves from the heat. I hope wherever you are, you're taking measures to protect yourselves, whether that's to stay cool, stay warm, or just keep a clear head.

> In cmmunity news, we have Calls for Proposals and ticket sales open for two (2!) more conferences this year: `Berlin </conf/berlin/2025/news/announcing-cfp-tickets/>`__ and `Australia </conf/australia/2025/news/announcing-cfp-tickets/>`__. Check them both out and see which works best for you. They both have virtual options (Australia is only virtual), so consider attending however you can or even submitting an interesting idea.

Author: ```suggestion
In community news, we have Calls for Proposals and ticket sales open for two (2!) more conferences this year: `Berlin </conf/berlin/2025/news/announcing-cfp-tickets/>`__ and `Australia </conf/australia/2025/news/announcing-cfp-tickets/>`__. Check them both out and see which works best for you. They both have virtual options (Australia is only virtual), so consider attending however you can or even submitting an interesting idea.
```

> This month's newsletter has thoughts from the community on: autoplaying GIFs, running audits of your documentation, learning to use Agile, and how other documentarians are using AI and LLMs. We're taking a break next month to keep our heads clear and ready for more interesting ideas, which will come again in September.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This month's newsletter has thoughts from the community on: autoplaying GIFs, running audits of your documentation, learning to use Agile, and how documentarians are using AI and LLMs. 

The newsletter team is taking a break next month to keep our heads clear and ready for more interesting ideas, which will come again in September, and for August you'll be receiving the usual community update.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This month's newsletter has thoughts from the community on: autoplaying GIFs, running audits of your documentation, learning to use Agile, and how documentarians are using AI and LLMs.

The newsletter team is taking a break next month to keep our heads clear and ready for more interesting ideas, which will come again in September. For August, you'll get the usual community update.
```

Several people suggested some best practices to consider. In general, instead of using animated GIFs, use short videos (MP4 or WebM files) with user controls. (Note: You can convert animated GIFs to such files.) If you *must* use animated GIFs with no controls, limit them to very short and purposeful animations. Also consider showing a static GIF with instructions that the user can click to view the animated version.

See more Write the Docs resources about `media </topics/#other-media>`__.

----------------------------------------------
Strategies for successful documentation audits
----------------------------------------------

> For your next documentation audit, consider these ideas to keep it organized and help make sure that it's a success.

Reviewer: Slightly awkward sentence, don't have an instant suggestion for improvement.

Reviewer 2: What about something like this:

Consider these ideas from the WTD community to help make sure that your next documentation audit is a success.

It's a bit abrupt too. Maybe combine this into the next paragraph?

Author: ```suggestion
The next time you're considering auditing your documentation, consider these ideas from the WTD community to help make sure that it's a success.
```

> Start by clarifying your goals. You might only want to map your content, or you might want to improve it. You might know specific issues you need to fix, or you might not be sure what problems you'll uncover. Think about how ambitious your audit should be and how much time you can dedicate.

Reviewer: > or you might not be sure what problems you'll uncover

arguably a trueism

Reviewer 2: perhaps "You might know about specific issues you need to fix, or you might be trying to uncover them."

Author: ```suggestion
Start by clarifying your goals. You might only want to map your content, or you might want to improve it. You might know specific issues you need to fix, or you might be trying to uncover them. Think about how ambitious your audit should be and how much time you can dedicate.
```

> Consider who else to include in the audit: a technical writer who is familiar with the style guide, subject matter experts, someone who reflects users' interests? If you need to improve docs that are new to you, check out the talk `Where do I start? The art and practice of documentation triage </videos/portland/2018/where-do-i-start-the-art-and-practice-of-documentation-triage-neal-kaplan/>`_. A more general resource that goes well beyond documentation is `Content Audits and Inventories: A Handbook for Content Analysis <https://xmlpress.net/content-strategy/audits-and-inventories/>`_.

Reviewer: is reflects the right work here? represents maybe?

Reviewer 2: agree, represents sounds better.

Author: ```suggestion
Consider who else to include in the audit: a technical writer who is familiar with the style guide, subject matter experts, someone who represents users' interests? If you need to improve docs that are new to you, check out the talk `Where do I start? The art and practice of documentation triage </videos/portland/2018/where-do-i-start-the-art-and-practice-of-documentation-triage-neal-kaplan/>`_. A more general resource that goes well beyond documentation is `Content Audits and Inventories: A Handbook for Content Analysis <https://xmlpress.net/content-strategy/audits-and-inventories/>`_.
```

See more Write the Docs resources about `docs maintenance </topics/#maintenance>`__.

-----------------------------------
Navigating Agile for documentarians
-----------------------------------

Integrating into an Agile software development team presents unique challenges for many documentarians. A recent Write the Docs Slack discussion highlighted this common experience, offering valuable advice for documentarians aiming to thrive in Agile settings.

1. **Agile isn't one-size-fits-all**: Agile isn't a rigid methodology; it's a flexible philosophy with diverse implementations. It varies tremendously among companies and even teams. You'll encounter different frameworks such as Scrum, Kanban, or SAFe. Be prepared for common "gotchas," such as overly technical "user stories" or ever-expanding "backlogs." Recognizing these nuances helps you adapt.

2. **Key learning and skills**: To navigate this landscape, focus on core Agile principles. Good starting points include `Atlassian's Agile documentation <https://www.atlassian.com/agile>`__ and the Agile Alliance's `"Agile Essentials." <https://www.agilealliance.org/agile-essentials/>`__

>    For those new to software development, focus first on basic technical concepts (such as front-end, back-end), software development lifecycle (SDLC) models, and developer roles.

Author: ```suggestion
   For those new to software development, focus first on basic technical concepts (such as front-end and back-end), software development lifecycle (SDLC) models, and developer roles.
```

   As you progress, align your documentation tasks with team "sprints" and ensure documentation is recognized as an integral part of development. Precise timing and coordination are essential for success.

3. **Embrace adaptability for impact**: The message from the discussion was clear: be prepared for variation, master the fundamentals, and cultivate adaptability. By understanding your team's Agile rhythm and advocating for documentation, you'll become an indispensable contributor. This ensures your docs are as responsive and influential as the products they support.

See more Write the Docs resources about `Agile and workflows </topics/#agile-and-workflows>`__.

-----------------------------------
How documentarians use AI (or LLMs)
-----------------------------------

With the availability of generative AI, many documentarians are wondering how to incorporate it into their work. Some are being asked to use AI to draft new content. 

> Documentarians don’t necessarily want to avoid AI altogether, but rather to use it when it adds value and doesn’t compromise quality. AI may have problems creating new content because it can only work with content and patterns it's already seen. It may not be suited for original content about new products and could fabricate content, causing legal issues. If asked about using it to create new content, say “NO”.

Reviewer 2: Do you need a "want" in the subordinate clause? ...but rather want to use it....

Author: ```suggestion
Documentarians don’t necessarily want to avoid AI altogether, but rather want to use it when it adds value and doesn’t compromise quality. AI may have problems creating new content because it can only work with content and patterns it's already seen. It may not be suited for original content about new products and could fabricate content, causing legal issues. If asked about using it to create new content, say “NO”.
```

> BUT, using AI can bring value. Specific tasks for AI use can include generating templates for others to provide new content, transforming existing content into other forms (such as tables, graphs, or troubleshooting procedures), reviewing content against a provided style guide, summarizing existing content (such as for introductory text or to make sense of a long email or Slack discussion), and performing repetitive, well-defined editing tasks. 

Reviewer 2: Do you need a "to use" in the first list item? ...templates for others to use to provide...

> BUT, using AI can bring value. Specific tasks for AI use can include generating templates for others to provide new content, transforming existing content into other forms (such as tables, graphs, or troubleshooting procedures), reviewing content against a provided style guide, summarizing existing content (such as for introductory text or to make sense of a long email or Slack discussion), and performing repetitive, well-defined editing tasks. 

Author: ```suggestion
BUT, using AI can bring value. Specific tasks for AI use can include generating templates for others to use to provide new content, transforming existing content into other forms (such as tables, graphs, or troubleshooting procedures), reviewing content against a provided style guide, summarizing existing content (such as for introductory text or to make sense of a long email or Slack discussion), and performing repetitive, well-defined editing tasks. 
```
